JSON web tokens (JWTs) are a standardized format for sending cryptographically `signed JSON data` between systems. 

They can theoretically contain any kind of data, but are most commonly used to send information ("claims") about users as part of `authentication`, `session handling`, and `access control` mechanisms.

A JWT consists of 3 parts, each separated by a dot : 
- a `header` : it is just `base64url-encoded` JSON objects, containing metadata about the token itself.
- a `payload` : also `base64url-encoded` JSON objects, but it contains the actual "claims" about the user.
- a `signature` : the cryptographic security of any JWTs, typically generated by hashing the header and the payload. In some case, they can also encrypt the resulting hash.

Without knowing the `server's secret signing key`, it shouldn't be possible to generate the correct signature for a given header or payload.

More info [here](https://portswigger.net/web-security/jwt)


[JWT.io](https://www.jwt.io/) allow us to examine JWT Tokens.

# Flawed JWT Signature Verification
## Accepting arbitrary signatures
JWT libraries typically provide one method for verifying tokens and another that just decodes them. For example, the Node.js library `jsonwebtoken` has `verify()` and `decode()`.

Occasionally, developers confuse these two methods and only pass incoming tokens to the `decode()` method. This effectively means that the application doesn't verify the signature at all, and we could craft a malicious JWT.

## Accepting tokens with no signature
Among other things, the JWT `header` contains an `alg` parameter (e.g. HS256). This tells the server which algorithm was used to sign the token and, therefore, which algorithm it needs to use when verifying the signature.

JWTs can be signed using a range of different algorithms, but can also be left unsigned. In this case, the `alg` parameter is set to `none`, or `nOnE` which indicates a so-called "unsecured JWT". Due to the obvious dangers of this, servers usually reject tokens with no signature. However, as this kind of filtering relies on string parsing, you can sometimes bypass these filters using classic obfuscation techniques, such as `mixed capitalization` and `unexpected encodings`.

# Bruteforcing Secret Keys
Some signing algorithms, such as `HS256` (HMAC + SHA-256), use an arbitrary, standalone string as the secret key. Just like a password, it's crucial that this secret can't be easily guessed or brute-forced by an attacker.

Using a [well-known secrets key](https://github.com/wallarm/jwt-secrets/blob/master/jwt.secrets.list) wordlist, we can try to bruteforce a signed JWT
```bash
hashcat -a 0 -m 16500 <jwt> <wordlist>
```
Hashcat signs the header and payload from the JWT using each secret in the wordlist, then compares the resulting signature with the original one from the server.

# Header Injection
Only the `alg` header parameter is mandatory, but sometimes JWT headers contain several other parameters : 
- `jwk` (JSON Web Key) - Provides an embedded JSON object representing the key.
- `jku` (JSON Web Key Set URL) - Provides a URL from which servers can fetch a set of keys containing the correct key.
- `kid` (Key ID) - Provides an ID that servers can use to identify the correct key in cases where there are multiple keys to choose from. Depending on the format of the key, this may have a matching `kid` parameter.

## Exploiting jwk Header Parameter
The JSON Web Signature (JWS) specification describes an optional `jwk` header parameter, which servers can use to embed their `public key` directly within the token itself in JWK format.

Ideally, servers should only use a `limited whitelist of public keys` to verify JWT signatures. However, misconfigured servers sometimes use `any key that's embedded` in the `jwk` parameter.

- We can try to sign a modified JWT using `our own RSA private key`, then embedding the matching `public key` in the `jwk` header.

The Burp's [JWT Editor Extension](https://portswigger.net/bappstore/26aaa5ded2f74beea19e2ed8345a93dd) can let us do that : 

- With the extension loaded, in Burp's main tab bar, go to the `JWT Editor Keys` tab.
- [Generate a new RSA key](https://portswigger.net/burp/documentation/desktop/testing-workflow/vulnerabilities/session-management/jwts#adding-a-jwt-signing-key).
- Send a request containing a JWT to Burp Repeater.
- In the message editor, switch to the extension-generated `JSON Web Token` tab and modify the token's payload however you like.
- Click `Attack`, then select `Embedded JWK`. When prompted, select your newly generated RSA key.
- Send the request to test how the server responds.

You can also perform this attack manually by adding the `jwk` header yourself. However, you may also need to `update the JWT's kid` header parameter to match the `kid` of the embedded key. The extension's built-in attack takes care of this step for you.

The tool [jwt_tool](https://github.com/ticarpi/jwt_tool) can also help us automate the process using the `original JWT token`, and the field we want to see : 
```bash
jwt_tool "ORIGINAL_TOKEN_HERE" -I -pc user -pv admin -X i
```

By default on every header, we should try : 
- `SQL` injection payload, because sometimes the header is making a request to a database
=> To test `SQLi` in a JWT using `Burp`, we can setup our `Intruder`, then choosing our `SQLi payloads list` (we can use the default one by Burp), and finally add `rules` inside the `Payload processing` tab. We can `add a prefix` containing the beginning of the JWT ex: `{"alg":"HS256","kid":"`, then `add a suffix` containing the end of the JWT ex: `","typ":"JWT"}`, and finally add the `Base64-encode` rule to encode everything. Be careful to verify if the JWT accepts `+/=` signs, or if we have to replace them by respectively `-_` and leave empty for the `=` padding that will be ignored.

- `SSRF` if the header is fetching an `URL`, or if it gets `interpreted as` a URL
- In rare cases, we could try `Command Injection` in the header. 

## Exploiting jku Header Parameter
Some servers let you use the `jku` (JWK Set URL) header parameter to reference a `JWK Set` (= a JSON object containing an array of JWKs representing different keys) containing the key. When verifying the signature, the server fetches the relevant key from this `URL`.

`JWK Sets` are sometimes exposed publicly via a standard endpoint, such as `/.well-known/jwks.json`.

More secure websites will only fetch keys from trusted domains, but you can sometimes take advantage of URL parsing discrepancies to bypass this kind of filtering. We covered some [examples of these](https://portswigger.net/web-security/ssrf#ssrf-with-whitelist-based-input-filters) in our topic on SSRF.

The tool [jwt_tool](https://github.com/ticarpi/jwt_tool) can also help us automate the process using the `original JWT token`, and the field we want to see : 
```bash
jwt_tool "ORIGINAL_TOKEN_HERE" -I -pc user -pv admin -X s -ju "https://ton-serveur-attaquant.com/jwks.json"
```

By default on every header, we should try : 
- `SQL` injection payload, because sometimes the header is making a request to a database
- `SSRF` if the header is fetching an `URL`, or if it gets `interpreted as` a URL
- In rare cases, we could try `Command Injection` in the header.

## Exploiting kid Header Parameter
Servers may use several cryptographic keys for signing different kinds of data, not just JWTs. For this reason, the header of a JWT may contain a `kid` (Key ID) parameter, which helps the server identify which key to use when verifying the signature.

Verification keys are often stored as a `JWK Set`. In this case, the server may simply look for the JWK with the same kid as the token. However, the JWS specification doesn't define a concrete structure for this ID - it's just an arbitrary string of the developer's choosing. For example, they might use the kid parameter to point to a particular entry in a database, or even the name of a file.

If this parameter is also vulnerable to `directory traversal`, an attacker could potentially force the server to use an arbitrary file from its filesystem as the verification key.
```bash
{
    "kid": "../../path/to/file",

# Don't forger to try basic path traversal / File inclusion payload here like ....//....//....//....//, etc etc
```
This is especially dangerous if the server also supports JWTs signed using a [symmetric algorithm](https://portswigger.net/web-security/jwt/algorithm-confusion#symmetric-vs-asymmetric-algorithms). In this case, an attacker could potentially point the kid parameter to a predictable, static file, then sign the JWT using a secret that matches the contents of this file.

You could theoretically do this with any file, but one of the simplest methods is to use `/dev/null`, which is present on most Linux systems. As this is an empty file, reading it returns an empty string. Therefore, signing the token with a empty string will result in a valid signature.

Here is a python script that would forge a JWT with an `empty signature` in case we've found a way to path traverse and use the `/dev/null` file : 
```python
python3 -c "
import hmac, hashlib, base64

header = 'eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6Ii4uLi4vLy4uLi4vLy4uLi4vLy4uLi4vL2Rldi9udWxsIiwidHlwIjoiSldUIn0'
payload = 'eyJ1c2VyIjoiYWRtaW4iLCJpYXQiOjE3NzgxNDI1MjV9'
message = f'{header}.{payload}'

signature = hmac.new(b'', message.encode(), hashlib.sha256).digest()
signature_b64 = base64.urlsafe_b64encode(signature).decode().rstrip('=')

print(f'\nVotre JWT forgé :\n{message}.{signature_b64}\n')
"
```

By default on every header, we should try : 
- `SQL` injection payload, because sometimes the header is making a request to a database
- `SSRF` if the header is fetching an `URL`, or if it gets `interpreted as` a URL
- In rare cases, we could try `Command Injection` in the header. 

## Other interesting JWT Header Parameter
The following header parameters may also be interesting for attackers:

- `cty` (Content Type) - Sometimes used to declare a media type for the content in the JWT payload. This is usually omitted from the header, but the underlying parsing library may support it anyway. If you have found a way to bypass signature verification, you can try injecting a `cty` header to change the content type to `text/xml` or `application/x-java-serialized-object`, which can potentially enable new vectors for `XXE` and `deserialization` attacks.
- `x5c` (X.509 Certificate Chain) - Sometimes used to pass the X.509 public key certificate or certificate chain of the key used to digitally sign the JWT. This header parameter can be used to inject self-signed certificates, similar to the `jwk` header injection attacks discussed above. Due to the complexity of the X.509 format and its extensions, parsing these certificates can also introduce vulnerabilities. Details of these attacks are beyond the scope of these materials, but for more details, check out [CVE-2017-2800](https://talosintelligence.com/vulnerability_reports/TALOS-2017-0293) and [CVE-2018-2633](https://mbechler.github.io/2018/01/20/Java-CVE-2018-2633).

# JWT Algorithm Confusion
Even if a server uses robust secrets that you are unable to brute-force, you may still be able to forge valid JWTs by signing the token using an algorithm that the developers haven't anticipated. This is known as an [algorithm confusion](https://portswigger.net/web-security/jwt/algorithm-confusion) attack.

## Changing the algorithm from RS256 to HS256
The algorithm HS256 uses a secret key to sign and verify each message. The algorithm RS256 uses a private key to sign messages, and a public key to verify them. If we change the algorithm from RS256 to HS256, the signature is now verified using the HS256 algorithm using the public key as secret key. Since the public key is not secret at all, we can correctly sign such messages.
We can find more info and example [here](https://repository.root-me.org/Exploitation%20-%20Web/EN%20-%20Attacking%20JWT%20authentication%20-%20Sjoerd%20Langkemper.pdf?_gl=1*9ok0gg*_ga*MTE3ODYwMTE1OS4xNzcwODI4NzE3*_ga_SRYSKX09J7*czE3Nzg2ODQ0MTgkbzI4JGcxJHQxNzc4Njg2MTYyJGo1OCRsMCRoMA..) and [here](https://repository.root-me.org/Exploitation%20-%20Web/EN%20-%20Hacking%20JSON%20Web%20Token%20(JWT)%20-%20Rudra%20Pratap.pdf?_gl=1*1byttpa*_ga*MTE3ODYwMTE1OS4xNzcwODI4NzE3*_ga_SRYSKX09J7*czE3Nzg2ODQ0MTgkbzI4JGcxJHQxNzc4Njg2MTY1JGo1NSRsMCRoMA..)

# JWT Revoke
If an application handles token revocation with a blacklist by storing the exact encoded token string instead of relying on a unique internal identifier (such as the `jti` claim), then we can try to add base64 padding `=` to the very end of the JWT (specifically on the signature portion); this minor alteration changes the string's footprint, allowing it to evade the strict blacklist check, while the backend library still decodes it identically and validates the legitimate signature.

We can detect this flaw during a source code audit by spotting the storage and direct comparison of raw tokens, or dynamically by verifying if a freshly revoked token, once padded, is successfully accepted by the server.

This structural weakness exists specifically because the mechanism attempts to revoke the encoded envelope (the textual container) rather than logically invalidating the token based on its internal payload.
