# Aircrack-ng

[Aircrack-ng](https://github.com/aircrack-ng/aircrack-ng) comprises a comprehensive suite of tools designed for the evaluation of WiFi network security. Prior to initiating any endeavors to analyze or exploit wireless networks, a foundational understanding of the functionalities inherent within these tools is imperative.

`Aircrack-ng` focuses on different areas of WiFi security:
1. Monitoring: Packet capture and export of data to text files for further processing by third party tools.
2. Attacking: Replay attacks, deauthentication, fake access points and others via packet injection.
3. Testing: Checking WiFi cards and driver capabilities (capture and injection).
4. Cracking: WEP and WPA PSK (WPA 1 and 2).

|**Tool**|**Description**|
|---|---|
|**Airmon-ng**|Airmon-ng can enable and disable monitor mode on wireless interfaces.|
|**Airodump-ng**|Airodump-ng can capture raw 802.11 frames.|
|**Airgraph-ng**|Airgraph-ng can be used to create graphs of wireless networks using the CSV files generated by Airodump-ng.|
|**Aireplay-ng**|Aireplay-ng can generate wireless traffic.|
|**Airdecap-ng**|Airdecap-ng can decrypt WEP, WPA PSK, or WPA2 PSK capture files.|
|**Aircrack-ng**|Aircrack-ng can crack WEP and WPA/WPA2 networks that use pre-shared keys or PMKID.|

# Airmon-ng
`Monitor mode` is a specialized mode for wireless network interfaces, enabling them to capture all traffic within a WiFi range. Unlike managed mode, where an interface only processes frames addressed to it, monitor mode allows the interface to capture every packet of data it detects, regardless of its intended recipient. 

This capability is invaluable for network analysis, troubleshooting, and security assessments, as it provides a comprehensive view of the network's activity. By enabling monitor mode, users can intercept and analyze packets, detect unauthorized devices, identify network vulnerabilities, and gather comprehensive data on wireless networks. This mode provides a deeper level of insight into the wireless environment, facilitating more effective troubleshooting, security assessments, and performance evaluations.

```bash
# Show the wireless interface name, driver & chipset
sudo airmon-ng

# Starting Monitor mode on wlan0 interface
sudo airmon-ng start wlan0

# Starting Monitor mode on wlan0 interface on specific channel
sudo airmon-ng start wlan0 11

# Verify the mode of the wlan0 interface (Mode:Monitor or Mode:Managed) 
iwconfig

# Stopping Monitor mode
sudo airmon-ng stop wlan0mon
```

## Checking for interfering processes
When putting a card into monitor mode, it will automatically check for interfering processes.
```bash
# Checking for interfering processes
sudo airmon-ng check

Found 5 processes that could cause trouble.
If airodump-ng, aireplay-ng or airtun-ng stops working after
a short period of time, you may want to kill (some of) them!

  PID Name
  718 NetworkManager
  870 dhclient
 1104 avahi-daemon
 1105 avahi-daemon
 1115 wpa_supplicant
```
As shown in the above output, there are 5 interfering processes that can cause issues by changing channels or putting the interface back into managed mode. If we encounter problems during our engagement, we can terminate these processes using the airmon-ng check kill command.

However, it is important to note that this step should `only be taken if` we are experiencing challenges during the pentesting process.
```bash
sudo airmon-ng check kill

Killing these processes:

  PID Name
  870 dhclient
 1115 wpa_supplicant
```





